1*Abaddon is versatile hero who specializes in absorbing damage and shielding his teammates. Unlike other supports, Borrowed Time *Borrowed Time allows Abaddon to be in the middle of the fight, converting heavy attacks back into health. His Mist Coil *Mist Coil and Aphotic Shield *Aphotic Shield makes it frustratingly hard for enemies to bring down his allies, and their low cooldowns can turn fights around at crucial moments. Curse of Avernus *Curse of Avernus slows foes hit by your sword, giving them a hard time running from you and your allies (since you can hit them with no worries while Borrowed Time is off cooldown), at the same time increasing your allies attack speed and movement speed if they also hit the enemy. Although Abaddon's common build seldom allows him to do enough damage to kill enemies alone, he can still provide cheap nuke damage while played as support, and under favorable circumstances, he can also be played as a semi-carry.
2*Alchemist is a formidable carry capable of amassing large amounts of gold, and sustaining himself almost indefinitely during teamfights. Armed with a Shadow Blade *Shadow Blade, Alchemist can also gank effectively by stunning enemies with Unstable Concoction *Unstable Concoction. Because of the extra gold from his Greevil's Greed *Greevil's Greed, Alchemist will always snowball into a potent fighter if a match goes long. Under Chemical Rage *Chemical Rage, a well-farmed Alchemist can demolish heroes and structures alike with alarmingly fast attack speed, all the while regenerating his health at incredible rates.
3*Ancient Apparition is a spellcaster hero whose abilities can empower, disable and destroys with the power of ice. His ultimate, Ice Blast allows him to damage & freeze his foes' health regeneration, placing them on disadvantages during every teamfight, thus making him scale very well into the game. However, Kaldr is not a beginner friendly support as his skillset requires precise timing and judgement to execute. He is also quite fragile as he does not really possesses any reliable/instant escape and disables mechanisms.
4*Anti-Mage is one of the most mobile carries in the game, mostly well known for his ability to punish lineups heavily reliant on magic damage with Spell Shield *Spell Shield giving him very high magic resistance and his Mana Void *Mana Void can be used to cause massive damage to heroes with huge mana pools. His Blink (Anti-Mage) *Blink makes him one of the fastest farmers in the game, with the ability to jump from creep camp to creep camp and quickly clear them with few items. Anti-Mage is however incredibly reliant on items to unlock his true potential, having a very low strength gain and no way of locking down enemy heroes makes him a very vulnerable hero if he does not have enough farm.
5*Arc Warden is a carry that can nuke enemies early and then split push to end the game. His health, armor, and mana early on are fairly low, but they still give him enough to last in lane and nuke foes with his combo. His health and mana grow to respectable degrees later on, but his agility still suffers. Throughout the game, he suffers from having no mobility spells, needs to focus on micromanagement, and abilities dealing poor damage against multiple enemies. Nonetheless, the opponents will find a farmed Arc Warden a dangerous foe.
6*Axe is a very strong initiator and disabler as he possesses an area disable capable of piercing spell immunity in Berserker's Call, and a low-cooldown slow in Battle Hunger that also boosts his movement speed. Given mobility and mana sustain, Axe is capable of wreaking havoc against enemies at all points of the game.
7*Bane is a very powerful single-target disabler who possesses reasonable nuking power. His strongest suit is setting up kills for teammates with high damage output or unreliable stuns, making him a powerful roamer and ganker who can assist teammates in getting kills throughout a match. This can allow him to regularly obtain reliable gold through kills and assists, which in turn allows him to build items to suit his needs.
8*Batrider is an intelligence hero mostly played in the offlane role, although sometimes played by professional players as a mid hero. Batrider is most focused on disrupting the enemy team's positioning and isolating enemies. Flaming Lasso *Flaming Lasso singles out certain heroes, along with Sticky Napalm *Sticky Napalm which increases the damage Batrider deals to targets, helping him end his enemies with Firefly *Firefly which also allows him to move over impassable terrain, opening up numerous possibilities.
9*Beastmaster is a utility hero that brings many benefits to his team, such as clearing trees with Wild Axes *Wild Axes. His scouting Unknown Unit *Hawk functions like a moving ward, and his Beastmaster Boar *Boar slows down enemies with ranged attacks. Inner Beast *Inner Beast speeds up allied attacks, and Primal Roar *Primal Roar is the best single-target stun in the game. That said, Beastmaster does not excel at any one particular role and is usually played as a semi-support or initiator. His summons require a modest amount of micromanagement, which can be intimidating to new players. Beastmaster can pick off supports with ease, but cannot go head-to-head against heavier heroes. Depending on the situation, players can build Beastmaster as an initiator, pusher, or an armor/strength based brawler.
10*Bloodseeker is a snowballing carry who grows faster and stronger as his enemies get weaker. Like a shark in water, Bloodseeker detects injured enemies across the entire map and runs them down with unnatural speed through Thirst *Thirst. His Rupture *Rupture makes enemies bleed with every step, allowing him to gank targets with ease during the early game. Regaining health each time an enemy falls, Bloodseeker overwhelms enemy teams in fights, leaving little chance for turnarounds. However, Bloodseeker has no disables of his own, and must rely on his teammates to lock down targets.
11*Bounty Hunter is a strong utility support hero who helps his team by picking off the enemy one by one, increasing gold gain for his team and giving them opportunities to take map objectives while they outnumber the enemy. However, he is also very vulnerable since his low strength means that he can be easily killed if the enemy catches him while he approaches a target, particularly due to his reliance on Shadow Walk. As such, good judgment and map awareness are key when playing Bounty Hunter, as he must be able to successfully initiate on and kill his targets without the enemy retaliating.
12*Brewmaster is an unpredictable brawler who sows disarray among enemy formations. With the help of a Blink Dagger *Blink Dagger, he jumps in to initiate with Thunder Clap *Thunder Clap, then divides into three elemental beings with Primal Split *Primal Split. He lands critical hits and dodges at random due to Drunken Brawler *Drunken Brawler, dealing significant damage. Brewmaster is fairly tanky, and difficult to kill when he splits apart with his ultimate ability. However, he does not excel at any one purpose, and should be considered a hybrid between initiator, brawler, and tank.
13*Bristleback is a very good tank not only because of his formidable health pool, but also because of one of his abilities Bristleback ability *Bristleback, making him more durable when fighting with his back against his enemy. His Viscous Nasal Goo *Viscous Nasal Goo helps slow down enemy and reducing its armor, Quill Spray *Quill Spray help dealing stack damage, and Warpath *Warpath further increases his attack damage and movement speed. Being a carry and a tank at the same time, he can easily become team's initiator, capable of dealing and taking tons of damages in a teamfight.
14*Broodmother is a hero who can pressure lanes early and scale well into the late game. She can Spawn Spiderlings *Spawn Spiderlings to help her farm, find kills, and push. After Spin Web *Spin Web, she gains free movement, health regeneration, and movement speed. With Incapacitating Bite *Incapacitating Bite which slows and applies miss chance, as well as her Insatiable Hunger *Insatiable Hunger which grants bonus damage and lifesteal, Broodmother quickly tears down hapless enemy heroes.
15*Centaur Warrunner is an aggressive tank who excels when he is placed in the middle of fights. He reflects damage with his passive ability Return (Centaur Warrunner) *Return, while stunning and attacking the area around him with Hoof Stomp *Hoof Stomp and Double Edge *Double Edge. Unlike other tanks, Centaur Warrunner sacrifices some durability in exchange for damage output, and may have a hard time recovering if the early game does not go well.
16*Chaos Knight is a powerful strength hero dealing high physical damage that smashes his foes with straight, but powerful hits due to his Chaos Strike *Chaos Strike. Chaos Bolt *Chaos Bolt is a luck-base spell that makes it hard to use, and he can close the gap with his enemies through Reality Rift *Reality Rift. Phantasm *Phantasm has long recharge time, it would be recommended to time your ultimate for teamfights only. Chaos Knight requires adequate farming and an aggressive mindset to trample enemy Heroes. Once enough farming, he can overpower the late game with lots of Physical DPS with his illusions.
17*Chen is a support who is one of the strongest junglers in the game, and can use his persuaded creeps (thanks to Holy Persuasion *Holy Persuasion) to gank and push very early in a game. Chen is able to weaken his adversaries with his Penitence *Penitence, and can heal all allies and neutral creeps under his control with Hand of God *Hand of God. His reliance on micromanagement and map awareness makes him a difficult hero to master, but utilized properly Chen has the ability to gain a powerful early advantage for his team, which can allow them to decisively end matches quickly.
18*Clinkz is a great all around ranged carry with high offensive burst damage. Though frail and easy to kill, Skeleton Walk *Skeleton Walk grants Clinkz stealth and haste to escape and re-position himself. This skill is also what makes Clinkz such an incredible ganker. His Searing Arrows *Searing Arrows provide huge bonus damage, greatly injuring enemies in conjunction with Strafe *Strafe. Despite his high damage, Clinkz has no disabling abilities, and has difficulty killing enemies once they move out of range.
19*Clockwerk is a tanky initiator and ganker built to isolate and separate enemies. His array of disables and nukes provide strong crowd control in any situation, allowing him to greatly disrupt the enemy. Rocket Flare *Rocket Flare provides distant scouting vision, and Hookshot *Hookshot allows Clockwerk to initiate from extreme distances. He specializes in trapping and zoning out enemies with Power Cogs *Power Cogs, allowing him and his team to pick off single heroes. With Blade Mail *Blade Mail, his core item, Clockwerk reflects damage and forces enemies to risk their lives by attacking him, or entering deeper into his team formation to find different targets. His abilities require good positioning and aim, which can be daunting for newer players. Clockwerk's damage scales badly into the late game, where his purpose will be limited to initiation.
20*Crystal Maiden is an efficient support who specializes in slowing enemies. Her highly valued Arcane Aura *Arcane Aura increases mana regeneration for all her teammates, while she remains effective throughout the game with very little items. In large fights, she can channel a Freezing Field *Freezing Field to obliterate enemies over a wide area, along with using Frostbite *Frostbite to target individuals. However, Crystal Maiden is quite fragile even compared to other supports, and is one of the slowest heroes in the game.
21*Dark Seer is a semi-support hero, most focused on AoE Battles. He is able to farm safely due to Ion Shell *Ion Shell which can also be used to damage his enemies. He can make himself and his allies reach incredible speeds with Surge *Surge, along with using Vacuum *Vacuum and Wall of Replica *Wall of Replica in conjuction with each other to initiate and deal damage using the enemies' own power.
22*Dark Willow is a sinister spellcaster, capable of dishing out bursts of magical damage with the help of Jex, her companion wisp. She excels at crowd control, entangling foes in the thorns of Bramble Maze *Bramble Maze or forcing them to flee with Terrorize *Terrorize. Despite her potent spells, Dark Willow's low health makes her quite vulnerable, and her long early game cooldowns require judicious use of her abilities.
23*Dazzle is a support hero most well known for his ability to save his teammates from death using Shallow Grave *Shallow Grave as well as his physical damage-focused spells. He can slow and later stun single targets with Poison Touch *Poison Touch, heal and harm with  Shadow Wave *Shadow Wave, and increase and decrease the armor of his allies and enemies respectively using Weave *Weave. His item-independent nature allows him to be played as a hard support and remain effective at all stages of the game.
24*Death Prophet is a powerful spell-caster, who has wide Area of Effect (AoE) spells which specialize in pushing lanes and also devastating enemy defensive towers quickly in order to enter their enemy base, to gain victory within a short period of time. Exorcism *Exorcism can devastate towers in a short period of time, while also being a great ability for teamfights. To keep herself alive, she can use Silence *Silence and Spirit Siphon *Spirit Siphon to remain active while still dealing damage.
25*Disruptor is a strong teamfight hero who can control the enemy team's positioning with his potent disables. His Kinetic Field *Kinetic Field can prevent enemies from leaving the area after being set up, and when used in conjunction with Static Storm *Static Storm can silence and disrupt enemies for extended periods. While he lacks nuking power, he can influence the battlefield in such a way as to greatly hinder the enemy in engagements and prevent gank targets from escaping with Glimpse *Glimpse.
26*Doom is a versatile carry who can become a powerful late-game threat due to his ability to quickly farm with Devour *Devour, his strong nuking power, and his ultimate Doom ability *Doom that lets him disable an enemy for at least 16 seconds. His skill set and fast farming potential allows him to be built in any number of ways to meet the enemy threat.
27*Dragon Knight is a durable front-line carry who can transform into a dragon and wipe out enemies with ranged projectile attacks. His heavy armor and regeneration from Dragon Blood *Dragon Blood makes him tankier than most carries, especially in the early game. If his team gains the upper hand, Dragon Knight's presence often ensures continued domination with little chance of enemy comeback. With a Shadow Blade *Shadow Blade, Dragon Knight can make a decent ganker due to Dragon Tail *Dragon Tail and its long stun duration. While resilient, Dragon Knight's damage output depends heavily on his dragon form, and can be rather useless if caught while it's on cooldown. Dragon Knight is also quite slow, and has no mobility skills.
28*Drow Ranger is a deadly archer, chilling and killing her enemies with volleys of Frost Arrows *Frost Arrows. With one of the highest agility stats in the game, her powerful shots will tear through most enemies from a safe distance. Her Precision Aura *Precision Aura increases the damage of her ranged allies, and a timely Gust *Gust can silence groups of enemies at pivotal moments. Drow Ranger is fairly fragile with no real escape ability, causing her to struggle against faster and more aggressive melee heroes.
29*Earth Spirit is one of the strongest disabling heroes in the game, possessing a stun, silence, and slow in all of his basic abilities, allowing him to combo his abilities based on the needs of his allies and how he wants to affect his enemies. By judiciously using his spells at the right time and in the right situation, he can inflict the enemy with powerful crowd control effects.
30*Earthshaker is a powerful spellcaster designed to repeatedly stun enemies. However, his naturally low mana requires careful management and selective use, especially during the early game. His Echo Slam *Echo Slam allows him to wipe out large groups of enemies, making him an ideal pick against heroes like Chaos Knight Chaos Knight, Meepo Meepo, Broodmother Broodmother, or Phantom Lancer Phantom Lancer. Compared to intelligence supports, Earthshaker has a sizeable health pool. But compared to most strength heroes, Earthshaker is fairly vulnerable and can be easily killed if caught out of position.
31*Elder Titan is a very flexible hero who can provide great amounts of utility to his team through his abilities, depending on how he is built. He can use Astral Spirit *Astral Spirit to accrue great amounts of bonus damage and movement speed, and then take advantage of Natural Order *Natural Order to inflict that bonus damage on enemies when their defenses are reduced. He is also capable of disabling multiple enemy heroes at once with a combination of Astral Spirit and Echo Stomp *Echo Stomp, as well as set up strong slows and deal tremendous damage with Earth Splitter *Earth Splitter after landing a successful Echo Stomp.
32*Ember Spirit is a very mobile and evasive carry due to his ability to strike from range or dodge enemy attacks using Sleight of Fist *Sleight of Fist and Fire Remnant *Fire Remnant. Playing Ember Spirit requires quick reflexes, good judgment and an aggressive mindset, as his instant cast animations and high mobility allow skilled players to outplay and outwit opponents, darting around the map to be where they least expect.
33*Enchantress is a flexible intelligence hero that can be an effective jungle hero with focus in ganking and pushing in early stages of the game. Enchant *Enchant allows her to control neutral creeps, gaining access to their abilities and auras. She can heal herself and allies with Nature's Attendants *Nature's Attendants, as well as deal pure damage through attacks with Impetus *Impetus.
34*Enigma is a tactical spellcaster who is known for his incredibly powerful ultimate, Black Hole *Black Hole. Playing him well requires efficient farming, control of Demonic Conversion *Demonic Conversion and good positioning to get the most mileage out of his gravitational abilities. A well-played Enigma can singlehandedly win a teamfight and possibly determine the outcome of a match by himself.
35*Faceless Void is a hero who holds mastery over time. He dashes through the battlefield, rewinding damage with Time Walk *Time Walk, stuns enemies with Time Lock *Time Lock, and causes their abilities to recharge slower with Time Dilation *Time Dilation. His signature ability, Chronosphere *Chronosphere, creates a bubble in space-time, stopping everything caught within so he and his team can beat down the enemy without retribution. As a melee carry, Faceless Void requires a large amount of farm in order to deal decent damage, but can be devastatingly powerful once he has his items. Faceless Void can be played solo in the off-lane, or with a support in the safe lane.
36*Gyrocopter is a ranged carry who specializes at dishing out physical and magical damage over a wide area. He presents an unorthodox pattern of carry in that he can deal a large amount of magical damage and crowd control much earlier than other carry heroes thanks to Call Down *Call Down and Rocket Barrage *Rocket Barrage. As game goes on, Flak Cannon *Flak Cannon adds up his physical damage output and maintains his threat to entire enemy team.
37*Huskar is a resilient ranged attacker who sacrifices his own health to inflict greater damage. An injured Huskar attacks with incredible speed, making him frustratingly hard to kill even at the brink of death. His deadly Life Break *Life Break is supremely suited to killing enemies one-on-one, especially during the early to mid game. Huskar's natural magic resistance prevents enemies from nuking him down while he finishes the job, then heals himself with Inner Vitality *Inner Vitality. He fulfills the roles of carry and ganker, although the damage over time from Burning Spear *Burning Spears will not match heavier carries in the late game.
38*Invoker is one of the most difficult to learn heroes in the game, but also one of the most flexible and powerful casters. As such, his skill floor is not impossibly high, however, his skill ceiling is almost unparalleled, and thus he takes significant amounts of practice in order to learn. Because of his need for quick levels and gold, he is usually played as a mid hero. Due to Invoker's heavy level requirement in order to be effective, it is generally advised to focus on leveling two orbs and getting a value point in the third, rather than trying to level all three equally. While Invoker can be more flexible if he can cast strong spells in all categories, the lack of specialization also limits his potency in areas where his team might need him to be strong. Invoker can only truly reach his full strength at level 25, and as such he needs to be able to effectively contribute to teamfights before reaching that point.
39*Io is a unique hero that provides boosts to its allies by linking to them. While relatively powerless alone, Io's powers amplify with appropriate heroes. It regenerates allies through Tether *Tether, and buffs their defense and attack speed with  Overcharge *Overcharge. But most importantly, Io can Relocate *Relocate an ally to any point on the map, setting up perfect ganks or saving them from certain death.
40*Jakiro is a tanky intelligence hero with low cooldown damage over time spells and high amounts of magic damage. He offers a large amount of teamfight with Ice Path *Ice Path and Macropyre *Macropyre ,and push with Dual Breath *Dual Breath and Liquid Fire *Liquid Fire
41*Juggernaut is a formidable swordsman capable of engaging and cutting down single enemies without much risk to himself. A medium carry, Juggernaut can support his teammates with Healing Ward *Healing Ward, and escape dangerous situations with Blade Fury *Blade Fury. In a one-on-one fight, Omnislash *Omnislash is the most powerful single target ability in the game, usually killing his opponent if no other enemies are around to absorb the damage.
42*Keeper of the Light works as an adept support who can aid his allies and hinder his enemies with his array of abilities. He can babysit to greatly augment the power of a lane, and transition into a pusher and counter-pusher past the laning stage.
43*Kunkka is a strategic fighter that relies on his carefully placed abilities to disrupt enemy formations. His skills complement one another, and need to be used in conjunction to be effective. With his Tidebringer *Tidebringer, Kunkka can deal a good amount of damage to a large area in front of him. Playing Kunkka requires good timing, tactical thinking, and an understanding of enemy movement. If insufficiently farmed, however, Kunkka will barely do any damage, and must rely on landing his abilities if he is to remain useful to his team.
44*Legion Commander is ganking carry whose damage potential is theoretically unlimited. She is able to heal, buff herself and her allies with Press the Attack *Press the Attack, and finish off enemies with Overwhelming Odds *Overwhelming Odds. With each victorious Duel *Duel, the Legion Commander becomes even more unstoppable. However, if she fails to win regular Duels, her damage may suffer as a result, rendering her much less useful as the game goes on.
45*Leshrac is renowned as one of the strongest nukers in the game, who is capable of putting out tremendous amounts of area magical damage in order to destroy his foes. These nukes are strong at killing both heroes and creeps, making Leshrac a powerful foe in teamfights. Additionally, he can push down towers quickly with Diabolic Edict *Diabolic Edict.
46*Lich is a ranged intelligence hero who can win the laning stage of the game with Sacrifice *Sacrifice that denies the opponent experience points and gives them to Lich and his allies. With the mana restored from Sacrifice, Lich can use Frost Blast *Frost Blast to nuke down enemies, or put Ice Armor *Ice Armor on himself and team for protection. His Chain Frost *Chain Frost deal heavy damage and slow to enemies during teamfights.
47*Lifestealer is a voracious flesh-eater who Feast *Feasts on his prey to regain his health, after inflicting them with deadly Open Wounds *Open Wounds. Consumed by madness, he will go through vicious Rage *Rages that will grant him magic immunity and bonus attack speed. If he's especially hungry and desperate, he can Infest *Infest any creep and hide inside like a parasite, devouring him when he's finally released.
48*Lina is a powerful ranged intelligence hero that can be played as a support or a semi-carry. Her abilities allow her to nuke and stun multiple heroes at once and her strong ultimate can annihilate low health heroes. Her passive allows her right-clicks to far exceed that of other typical intelligence heroes, giving her a very respectable amount of physical damage output. Played well, Lina is an extremely strong ganking hero who can kill out of position heroes all by herself.
49*Lion is a powerful spellcaster and is mostly played as support or ganker hero due to his disabling spells. He is best to partner with auto attack carries or another spellcaster to finish enemies quickly. His Earth Spike *Earth Spike and his Hex (Lion) *Hex make him a formidible disabler, while his Mana Drain *Mana Drain can prevent enemy heroes from casting spells if done effectively and allowed to drain. His Finger of Death *Finger of Death can easily nuke the chosen enemy, dealing incredible damage to help his allies or himself finish a kill.
50*Lone Druid is an adaptive carry who controls a durable Lone Druid Spirit Bear *Spirit Bear to wreak havoc on the battlefield. With two separate item inventories, the pair acts like two complimentary heroes with variety playstyles, either Lone Druid providing buffs from the back while the Spirit Bear fights on the front lines, or Lone Druid attacking from long range while the Spirit Bear scouts and split pushes. These arrangements allow Lone Druid to stay on the fringes of conflict, thus risking his own life less often than most other carries. However, if the Spirit Bear falls in battle, Lone Druid himself becomes significantly less effective. Because of the micromanagement needed to control Spirit Bear, Lone Druid can be a daunting hero for newer players.
51*Luna is a highly offensive carry who can demolish buildings and clear the battlefield in very little time. Along with her flying Moon Glaives *Moon Glaivess, Luna can call upon the goddess Selemene to cover the battlefield in an Eclipse *Eclipse, striking down large numbers of enemies at once. Being a purely offensive hero, Luna suffers from a lack of defensive abilities, and will struggle against carries that are geared towards one-on-one combat.
52*Lycan is a remarkable pusher who can wear down buildings and force enemies to react quickly to his regular tower onslaughts; as towers melt incredibly fast under Lycan's and his units' pressure, boosted by their canine Feral Impulse. His only contribution to full-on team fights will be the bonus damage he grants with Howl to his allies, his allies' summons, his owns summons, and himself, as well as his formidable physical attacks. Else he can surge out of the woods for a quick gank or push after he transformed with Shapeshift, moving at a haste speed of 650. Finally, good players will make the best usage of his Summon Wolves ability and scout the enemies' position while remaining undetected with invisibility at level 4.
53*Magnus is one of the few melee heroes who can solo the middle lane well, because of his skill set. Shockwave allows him to safely get last hits while also harassing the lane opponent. His ultimate, Reverse Reverse Polarity, is an extremely important ability for teamfights, allowing him to stun and group up enemies hit into a small area in front of him, which can then be moved through Skewer. It is ideal for him especially if he is needed to be a carry in the late game.
54*Medusa is a very hard carry who can easily turn teamfights around in her favor.  Mana Shield icon.png Mana Shield makes her one of the tankiest carries in the game, but her extreme item dependence requires her to farm for much of the game before she can be effective in teamfights. Split Shot icon.png Split Shot allows her to farm really fast in the jungle and deal considerable damage to multiple heroes in fights. However, her early game is filled with problems, such as having the lowest base HP in the game, little mana, and slow movement speed.
55*Meepo is one of the most unique heroes in all of Dota, with the ability to split into up to five bodies. While he requires intensive micro-management, once mastered Meepo is capable of farming, pushing and ganking (maybe all at once) more successfully than most other heroes in the game. Lua error: The ability does not exist. allows Meepo to trap an enemy for an extended period of time, as all of Meepo's clones share individual cooldowns on abilities. Lua error: The ability does not exist. allows his clones to teleport to other clones, including the original Meepo, while also doing considerable amounts of damage, especially when several Meepos use it at the same time.
56*Mirana is a very well-rounded hero who can fill almost any role required by her team. Her array of spells gives her the ability to disable, nuke, push, escape and gank in any number of situations. The teamwide invisibility from her Moonlight Shadow icon.png Moonlight Shadow is one of the best ganking tools in the game. Depending on the lineup, Mirana is capable of playing as a carry, semi-carry, roamer, support, and even has minor jungling capabilities.
57*Monkey King is a trickster hero who jumps from treetop to treetop, scouting out his opponents from above, waiting for the opportunity to crash down on them with Primal Spring. With his magic extending staff, he smashes distant foes with Boundless Strikes, each blow charging his weapon through Jingu Mastery. Prone to Mischief icon.png Mischief, the Monkey King disguises himself as trees and everyday objects, allowing him to ambush enemies, or deceive them for a quick getaway.
58*Morphling is a carry hero who switches between damage dealer and resilient survivor. With an Ethereal Blade icon.png Ethereal Blade, Morphling can deal extremely high burst damage, often taking out an enemy instantly. However, he suffers from item and level dependency, as well as a low mana pool and low movement speed.
59*Naga Siren is a versatile hero who can appear to be a team's hard carry while actually being just a support. As a support, you can pin down an enemy with Ensnare that pierces spell immunity, reduce armor with Rip Tide and damage without putting yourself in danger with Mirror Image. Also, you have a fearsome teamfight presence in Song of the Siren which puts enemies to sleep. As a carry however, you will use your images and Rip Tide to farm the jungle and push the lanes, and your Song as a get-out-of-jail-free card, eventually crushing the enemy's base under the ocean's pressure.
60*Nature's Prophet is a very unorthodox hero most renowned for his ability to push and gank, as his combination of abilities gives him powerful global presence and pushing potential. However, the hero himself is quite frail and can be killed easily if caught by the enemy.
61*Necrophos is a strong nuker and tanky hero who is capable of surviving long teamfights and picking off key enemy heroes with Reaper's Scythe icon.png Reaper's Scythe. His Death Pulse icon.png Death Pulse is able to heal/damage allies/enemies, Ghost Shroud icon.png Ghost Shroud is able to chase fleeing heroes, and Heartstopper Aura icon.png Heartstopper Aura helps harrass enemies in early game. Depending on the build, Necrophos can be either heavy nuker, or durable caster.
62*Night Stalker is a strong early game ganker during the night. Night Stalker depends on Darkness in order to be effective as his abilities increase in strength during the night. If left unchecked, Night Stalker can snowball by getting kills after kills in the early game and controlling the map in the mid to later stages of the game with great night vision. Night Stalker is not a strong team fighter and should be using superior vision and map control to dictate when and where team fights should occur.
63*Nyx Assassin is a powerful roamer whose burst damage nukes allows him to quickly kill any lone heroes he encounters. While his spells provide relatively little teamfight contribution outside of Impale, his ability to kill the enemy one by one can put the enemy team at a disadvantage in terms of economy, creating opportunities for his team to take advantageous teamfights or outfarm the opposition. However, Nyx Assassin's abilities fall off in the late game, where he plays a more supporting role with his stuns.
64*Ogre Magi is the embodiment of "dumb muscle". While having a meager mana pool for an intelligence hero, his health pool can become one of the largest in the game. Not needing very many items, Ogre is potent at all points in the game, being able to easily trade hits early on, burst foes in the mid game, and help with late game pushes.
65*Omniknight is a defensive support who specializes in healing his allies with Purification and shielding them from damage with Repel and Guardian Angel. Unlike most other supports, he remains relevant in the late game as his abilities lack the type of scaling that makes them irrelevant against farmed enemies. Omniknight is generally played as a safe-lane support, but he can occasionally be played as an off-laner.
66*Oracle is a versatile spell caster who can use abilities defensively or offensively depending on different combinations of abilities. A well timed False Promise may change a surprise attack from the enemy into a failed gank. However, Oracle is not really mobile, thereby susceptible to getting picked or focused first in fights if poorly positioned.
67*Outworld Devourer is a carry and a disabler. He is one of the few damage dealers who can also reset fights, break chain stuns, and save teammates thanks to his Astral Imprisonment. He is also one of the few heroes who can reliably deal pure damage thanks to Arcane Orb, which can also steal intelligence from heroes and does extra damage against summons and illusions. Nearby allies benefit from Essence Aura as they have a chance to regain a percentage of their max mana each spell cast. Finally, Sanity's Eclipse not only deals damage in a large radius based on Outworld Devourer's current intelligence, but also remove 40% of their maximum mana.
68*Pangolier is an agile brawler who dashes across the map, rending his target's armor with a flurry of rapier strikes. Curling up in his armored shell, he stuns and scatters foes as he rolls into teamfights, bouncing over obstacles and crashing down on the battlefield. However, Pangolier must stay constantly aware in the early game, because he can be easily disabled before his abilities have been fully leveled.
69*Phantom Assassin is a carry renowned for her innate chance to deal massive critical damage, often killing enemies with a single swing. She specializes in hunting down vulnerable heroes, slowing them with a Stifling Dagger and leaping past defenses with Phantom Strike. Like other carries, Phantom Assassin needs a decent amount of gold and items to be effective. Because of her complete dependence on landing physical crits, she is susceptible to disables and must rely on a Black King Bar in most teamfights.
70*Phantom Lancer is an exceptional carry who outnumbers and overwhelms his targets with armies of illusions. With the ability to charge at his opponents, the Phantom Lancer is relatively mobile, and can disappear briefly from the battlefield to confuse or avoid his enemies. Indistinguishable from with his clones, enemies often have a hard time targeting the real Phantom Lancer during fights. However, the Phantom Lancer's illusions can be destroyed by area of effect abilities, rendering him less effective as a result.
71*Phoenix is a high-risk-high-reward, spell-dependent supportive initiator adept at placing debuffs on a wide area to hamper the enemy team's offensive capabilities and slowly burn their health away. Its abilities apply powerful slows, rain down heavy damage over time from a distance, and cover a large area in a stellar inferno as it collapses into a scorching Supernova. Should enemies fail to destroy or escape it, they will be met with a stun that pierces spell immunity, allowing Phoenix and its allies to follow up with their own abilities.
72*Puck is an extremely elusive hero who misleads and disrupts enemies with a combination of disabling items and abilities. Though vulnerable, Puck is able to initiate on enemy teams, silencing and locking down opponents before teleporting away in a glowing orb. Puck's arsenal of tricks and items require sharp situational awareness during teamfights, and can be overwhelming to newer players. Nonetheless, a well-played Puck can escape nearly any situation, and return to repeatedly disable opponents for his teammates.
73*Pudge is a fearsome ganker and one of the most popular and renowned heroes in all of Dota. Played skillfully, he can displace enemies and set up kills for his team that would be otherwise impossible to accomplish even from the early game.
74*Pugna is a caster whose abilities provide strong nuking power and utility in various situations. He offers strong teamfight contribution and can push and counter-push effectively with his nukes.
75*Queen of Pain is a fearsome mid laner who has impressive mobility through Blink, along with several spells that deal significant damage. Despite her sizeable amounts of damage, she is very fragile and weak to disables, and must be played smartly in order to succeed.
76*Razor is a fast, tough anti-carry who steals the attack power from his enemies, and transfers it to himself. He can quickly melt away armor with Eye of the Storm icon.png Eye of the Storm, allowing his team to finish off enemies with ease. However, Razor has no disables, and must rely on staying close to his targets and executing his abilities properly in order to be an effective damage dealer.
77*Riki's permanent invisibility is both his greatest strength and his greatest weakness. On one hand, it makes him able to surprise enemies and farm with very little concern. On the other hand, without invisibility he has no real defense. He still has to watch out for revealing items such as Dust of Appearance icon.png Dust of Appearance and Gem of True Sight icon.png Gem of True Sight, as well as abilities that prevent him from going invisible. If he stays alive and picks off lone enemies, he can quickly get out of control.
78*Rubick is a flexible spellcaster, best known for his ability to copy enemies last used spells to use against them. He is commonly picked as a counter to big teamfight spells such as Tidehunter's Ravage icon.png Ravage, Enigma's Black Hole icon.png Black Hole and Earthshaker Echo Slam icon.png Echo Slam.
79*Sand King is played as an initiator Hero with extremely powerful AoE damage, going from one-instance damage to damage over the time. All of his abilities can affect multiple enemies, deal damage and pack with them disables and strong disables, which makes him not only a great nuker but also a great disabler. Your prime function will be to intiate a fight (nearly all the time with a Blink Dagger) unleashing tons of magical damage and crowd control. Given these, Sand King can be a valuable Hero from early to mid game, ganking, fighting and pushing with his AoE damage and disable. Since most of his damage is magical (nearly all his source) and his disables do not pierce spell immunity (except from his ultimate slow), in the later stages of the game you will find your usefulness diminished, but not zeroed, so its good to finish the game while you shiny.
80*Shadow Demon is an excellent defensive support capable of resetting fights, counter-initiating, and dealing with blinks and spell immunity. His Disruption works well as a way to break up chain stuns and to set up an ally's stun. Soul Catcher is a 50% damage increase, while his ultimate Demonic Purge slows and dispels enemies even through spell immunity.
81*Shadow Fiend Shadow Fiend is a ranged carry who collects the soul of every unit he kills, growing stronger with each soul claimed. Because of this, he benefits from a high attack damage potential, but also suffer punishing setbacks if he dies. The Shadow Fiend can also unleash all the souls he has gathered, devastating enemies over a wide area with Requiem of Souls icon.png Requiem of Souls. While highly effective as an offensive hero, Shadow Fiend has no defensive abilities and needs help from teammates to position his abilities.
82*Shadow Shaman is a very powerful ganker and pusher, who possesses very strong disables and nukes. His spells allow him to disable lone enemies for extended periods of time, making them easy prey for his teammates, or to make short work of creep waves and towers.
83*Silencer is an intelligence-based teamfight-oriented hero that scales exceptionally well thanks to his innate ability Intelligence Steal. He is able to render any magic user useless with his Last Word and Arcane Curse. His signature ultimate, Global Silence can make a swift table turns in teamfight.
84*Skywrath Mage is a very strong nuker whose spells allow him to deal tremendous amounts of magic damage to enemy heroes. If left uninterrupted, he is a force to be reckoned with and is capable of destroying enemy heroes by himself.
85*Slardar is a physical damage-based carry who specializes in chasing down and crushing his foes. While he is very straightforward and easy to learn, mastering his abilities can allow players to unlock his true potential.
86*Slark is an extremely slipperly melee carry. Jumping over obstacles, he Pounces on enemies and jumps away to safety, shrouding himself from damage with Shadow Dance. When unseen, Slark's natural regeneration replenishes his health, allowing him to return to the fight time and time again. Slark is susceptible to area disables and magical nukes, and his damage is mostly effective against single targets.
87*Sniper is a very long ranged carry, designed to decimate enemies from the backline. He is able to scout ahead with his Shrapnel, and pick off targets from extreme distances with Assassinate. In the late game, a well-farmed Sniper can destroy almost any enemy before they have a chance to get close or do much in a team fight. However, Sniper is also one of the most defenseless heroes in the game, and can be easily killed if caught alone.
88*Spectre is a hard carry who can dominate the late game if she gets the necessary farm. Her Desolate icon.png Desolate ability lets her take on solo opponents with the upper hand, and Dispersion icon.png Dispersion makes her a tanky foe who deals damage by reflecting incoming attacks. However, her early game is one of the worst in the game, being squishy and her only escape using up a lot of her mana pool. Get past this, however, and Spectre will be a force to be reckoned with.
89*Spirit Breaker usually serves as an initiator/ganker/tank role in the team. His skillset allows/requires player to consistently checking for any ganking opportunity across the map meanwhile helping his team secure space and farm. If he does so, a successful early-mid game Spirit Breaker can snowball into a semi-carry and crush his foes relentlessly, carving a path to victory for his team.
90*Storm Spirit is a very mobile ganker who thrives on an aggressive play style. While he is very mana-hungry and difficult to master, he more than makes up for this by rewarding players with aggressive mindsets and good dexterity, who can use his abilities to jump on foes from extremely long distances, pummel them down with tremendous amounts of magical damage, and escape before their allies can turn on him.
91*Sven is the embodiment of strength, a mighty front line fighter capable of dealing tremendous physical damage to groups of foes at once. A well farmed Sven can destroy an enemy in just a few hits, overpowering other carries with sheer burst damage. However, Sven is vulnerable to kiting and disables, and generally has a slower attack speed than most carries.
92*Techies is an unorthodox hero in the game, as their team contribution comes mainly from placing traps outside of combat rather than engaging enemies in fights. Playing Techies requires good map awareness and game sense in order to know when and where to place traps.
93*Templar Assassin is a highly elusive and devastating hero in the right hands. Her Refraction simultaneously protects her from any damage instance, no matter how low or high, and increases her attack damage output for a few attacks. Combined with the armor reduction of Meld, any enemy hero with small health pools should be wary of her, as if they are not vigilant, they will be crippled by her Psionic Traps, letting her catch up, or materialize herself beside them with the help of a Blink Dagger, then finish them off in only a few swings of her Psi Blades. With proper timing and the right tools, Templar Assassin can protect herself from powerful nukes, evade the enemy team, and even have the potential to wipe out an entire team with perfect positioning and quick actions.
94*Terrorblade is a potent carry who demolishes buildings and heroes alike with his illusions. With Metamorphosis, he transforms into an imposing demon avatar, gaining the ability to deal high damage at range. However, Terrorblade's low natural health makes him quite fragile in the early game, and his reach is rather limited without Metamorphosis.
95*Tidehunter is a very durable hero who brings disables and debuffs to the field. He focuses on debilitating the enemy and shrugging off their attempts to disable and kill him, as he is capable of absorbing a tremendous amount of punishment should the enemy attempt to focus him down to prevent him from inhibiting them in teamfights.
96*Timbersaw is an armored brawler who relies on cutting down trees as a mechanic for rapid movement and dealing damage. In the early and mid stages of the game, Timbersaw can be surprisingly durable, staying in the fight and taking out multiple opponents even on the verge of death. His pure damage penetrates armor and magic resistance, making him deadly against all opponents. However, Timbersaw lacks any true disables, and must rely on his mobility to keep up with his enemies.
97*Tinker is a very mobile nuking hero with powerful pushing and disabling potential depending on how he is built. He should be played around his ultimate, as it allows him to cast his spells and use his abilities multiple times in a single engagement.
98*Tiny is a carry with a large amount of health and status resistance. In the early game, he uses his Avalanche icon.png Avalanche and Toss icon.png Toss combo to deal burst damage in ganks. As he acquires more items, Tiny transitions into a full-fledged carry, capable of wiping entire teams with his tree, and demolishing buildings in little time. With a Blink Dagger icon.png Blink Dagger, Tiny also makes an effective initiator. However, Tiny is susceptible to disables, and can be shut down by intense harassment in the early game.
99*Treant Protector is a tough support hero who is able to protect and regenerate allies and friendly buildings with his trademark ability, Living Armor. Hiding himself with Nature's Guise and packing a huge bash, he is one of few supports that can sneak past enemy lines to set up ganks and/or initiate a fight by trapping the opposing team in an Overgrowth. Alone, Treant Protector does little damage and requires good teamwork to be effective.
100*Troll Warlord is one of the strongest hard carries in the whole game. His signature ability, Berserker's Rage, allows him to switch between melee and ranged autoattacks, both with their pros and cons. He is most devastating in a one vs. one situation because of his ability Fervor but he also can put out major damage in teamfights with Whirling Axes either slowing the enemy or making them miss. Finally, his ultimate Battle Trance gives the hero and his team increased attack speed, useful for taking objectives such as Roshan or enemy buildings.
101*Tusk is a very strong initiator who can set up fights on his team's terms. His arsenal of crowd control spells can greatly inhibit enemies during fights and ganks, giving allies a powerful edge. Tusk is a ganking specialist as he can hunt fragile heroes throughout the game. However, his skill and aggressive play style can be a double edge against him when it comes to initiating & chasing fleeing enemies as his ice shard can block his teammates from proceed with the chase and he can roll himself into a counter-ganking trap set up by his opponent. Thus, although his skillset is rather straightforward, player should exercise good judgement before consider initiation.
102*Underlord is a durable utility offlaner/support who takes charge on the battlefield, creating dangerous hazards over large areas, while teleporting his team across the map with Dark Rift. He excels at trapping enemies in a Pit of Malice, and mitigating incoming attacks with his Atrophy Aura. With the health of a strength hero and the extra damage from Atrophy Aura, Underlord can stand his ground better than most supports. However, Underlord is slow and lumbering, and often suffers from insufficient mana.
103*Undying usually serves as a lane support/tank role in the team. His abilities allow him to harass enemy off the lane secure space for his carry to farm. Undying truly shines during every coordinated teamfight due to his plague aura and tombstone, forcing his enemy to either kill him or suffer the debuff consequences.
104*Ursa is a simple carry/anti-tank hero who specialises in quickly taking out enemies one at a time. He is powerful from start to finish, tearing apart enemies and getting early Roshan kills for his team with the help of his passive Fury Swipes. Combined with Overpower and Enrage, Ursa can quickly take down even the toughest heroes. However, his damage output is strictly limited to melee range and he has no mobility options, making him a prime target for enemy disables and thus heavily reliant on items such as Black King Bar and Blink Dagger.
105*Vengeful Spirit is a very strong and well-balanced support who specializes in roaming, ganking, and disabling. Unlike most other casting supports, her skill set emphasizes physical damage over magical, allowing her abilities to be useful in the late game.
106*Venomancer is a support hero who can deal tremendous damage over time with his spells. He also possesses strong push and counter-push potential in his Plague Wards, allowing him to defend towers and high-ground as well as take enemy towers by himself.
107*Viper is a mixed damage carry who functions as a powerful team fight hero in the midgame. Nethertoxin icon.png Nethertoxin contaminates the ground, dealing damage and removing his opponents' passives. His Corrosive Skin icon.png Corrosive Skin punishes anyone who dares attack him, while Poison Attack icon.png Poison Attack and Viper Strike icon.png Viper Strike slow enemies to a crawl. Because of this, Viper is an exceedingly deadly ganker during the early game, but is less potent during the late game. Viper also lacks any disables and struggles against enemies with spell immunity.
108*Visage is a highly flexible Hero, able to push and gank very effectively, packing within his abilities a massive nuke with very low cooldown and one powerful slow, useful for taking down enemies when ganking. He is also a strong teamfighter, able to cause tons of damage and apply long-lasting disables with his Familiars, which give Visage its fame for his difficult learning curve, due to his dependence on effective micromanagement of those. Once mastered, Visage becomes a devastating support, with a mix between physical damage, magical damage and long length disables and able to push, gank and fight with his Familiars.
109*Warlock is a powerful spellcaster capable of turning the tide of teamfights, bringing Hell powers with his abilities, Fatal Bonds his enemies to suffer with the same catastrophic fate. He is almost entirely dependent on good positioning, due to lack of front line abilities, but has great cast ranges on his abilities, so he can disrupt enemies from a safe distance. Warlock also offers a heal that can also damage enemies, doing a fine job as a lane partner. His ultimate, Chaotic Offering, calls down a powerful summon along with a spell immunity piercing stun that covers the battlefield almost entirely.
110*Weaver is a slippery carry who shifts in and out of space, and turns back time to recover from his injuries. Summoning The Swarm icon.png The Swarm to latch onto his enemies, Weaver can drastically reduce enemy in teamfights. Weaver is extremely item dependent, and must farm well throughout the game to be effective.
111*Windranger is a very flexible hero who can be played in any lane, and who can perform many roles from support-disabler to DPS carry.
112*Winter Wyvern is a powerful nuker who also provides utility in her spells, making her a well-rounded support. As she does not require gold in order to be effective, she is well-suited to playing as a hard support, protecting her safe lane carry with Cold Embrace, as well as rotating to gank with the slow from Arctic Burn and the damage of Splinter Blast. Unlike most supports, she becomes extremely strong in the late game where the physical attack damage tend to be high and crowd control is definitive key to win, since she can turn her enemies attacks against themselves with Winter's Curse while locking them for a long duration.
113*Witch Doctor is a strong support that scales well throughout the game. If well positioned can change the flow of battle with his ultimate.
114*Wraith King is a durable carry with a reliable stun. As his ultimate, Reincarnation, effectively doubles his health in a teamfight, he is commonly built as a tank carry. He is traditionally popular among new players for his survivability and simple playstyle. However, Wraith King can also be played at a high level of skill, particularly by using active items.
115*Zeus is an intelligence based hero played solely as a nuker. He has the highest magical damage output of any hero in the game and his strongest aspect is his early to mid game dominance as well as a extremely strong late game, even with minimal farm. If you play him correctly he can easily win games on his own.
